# Rokarsh

Rokarsh is an island pseudo-nation lying to the far west across a stretch of ocean known as the Demon’s Pass. When the first elves sailed to the continent of Chardon, they first laid shore upon the isle of Rokarsh. But when the elves arrives, they did not find an untamed wilderness, but an ancient ruin. By the time the elves had arrived, the great cities of Rokarsh had been abandoned for centuries, rotting as they returned to the thick jungles that surrounded them. Almost nothing is known about these cities or the people who inhabitated them, including the cause of their seemingly abrupt disappeareance. Many expeditions and inquisitions have been made into who may have once lived on the island, but even the most skilled historians and archaeologists have found no clues. Some theories of their disappearance speculate they were wiped out by some natural disaster or plague, but no remnants of these people have ever been found, only the structures they built. It was as if they all simply decided to leave Rokarsh behind, never to return. The conundrum of this lost civilization still puzzles scholars to the present day. In addition to its inherent mystery, research of the island has slowed to a standstill over the past 100 years, as the orcs of Votar have recently taken up residence, claiming the land for themselves. Now Rokarsh is wrought with barbaric orcish clans constantly fighting amongst themselves over blood feuds and resources. For most of it's history, the island has simply been know to the people of Chardon as The Lost Isle. In the past 100 years, the orcs have claimed it under it's new name, Rokarsh, meaning "broken" in Orcish.

## Image Board

https://www.pinterest.com/watersalexander980/rokarsh/