# The City of Steel

Sometime in the first century of the Third Age, after the first wizard Mito perfected the ritual of immortality, he began his work to establish a great civilization. A civilization that would be built upon the principles of the arcane he himself created. A city that spanned from ocean to ocean. A city that would serve as an anchor for arcane education for centuries to come. The pinnacle of magical knowledge for all of Cara. And thus, Mitopolis was founded.

For two millenia, Mitopolis served the world as the greatest resource for all scientific and arcane knowledge. It was founded, maintained, and ruled over by the First Wizard for nearly a thousand years until he released his immortality and chose to pass on. The city grew to a truly titanic size, stretching across the entire continent from coast to coast just south of the Gothraka wall that separates Hadash from the rest of the continent. For generations, Mitopolis served as a safe haven for all kinds of peoples where they could live in peace, free from any government, persecution, arcane war, or even the gods themselves. But alas, the great city could not last forever.

The fall of Mitopolis is a hotly debated topic among historians of Chardon. There are many accounts and theories on how the city truly became what it is today, but all can agree that the catalyst for its proper downfall was the creation of The Pit. In order to seal away Algoraeix and end the Planar War, the great mages and wizards of Mitopolis banded together to create a ritual so powerful, it could seal away Algoraeix forever. With the divine magic of the gods fueling their ritual, the greatest heroes of Mitopolis succeed in their aims, but with a tremendous cost. It is unknown how the ritual backfired to such a tragic extent, but through some critical error or perhaps malicious interference, the great ritual nearly destroyed the entire city. All of the great mages of Mitopolis were killed in the process of sealing away the great demon and half the city was destroyed as a titanic pit opened up in the earth to imprison the great demon within it.

The creation of The Pit is of course accepted as the greatest factor contributing to the fall of Mitopolis, however there are many other historical accounts that suggest the city had already begun to decay before the ritual. As a result, once the city was sundered into two, it quickly fell into anarchy and chaos. Many left Mitopolis after the ritual, but those who stayed began a war for power over the crumbling remains of a once bountiful civilization. Resources became scarce and many brutal organizations came into power, hoarding the remains of Mitopolis for themselves and waging wars over the scraps. With the greatest minds of the city gone, it’s magical architecture began to decompose and fall apart, causing those who remained to build on top of the corpse of Mitopolis over and over again until the ruins of the original city became buried in brick, mortar, and steel. What was once Mitopolish is one known to the world as The City of Steel.

In the modern era, The City of Steel is a ruthless urban hellscape ruled over by criminal syndicates who are constantly at each other's throats. In order to make it in the streets of The City of Steel, you have to do whatever is necessary to survive no matter the cost. Bad deals, backstabbing, and survival of the fittest are the principals in The City of Steel. You step on others to stay afloat, or you die.

In spite of the corruption that has come to power in the city, the ruins of Mitopolis are still buried deep underneath the layers of construction that most of the denizens of the city live upon. There is still magic in the city. Powerful magic. Many wizards and artificers journey to the city with the hope of excavating the once great Mitopolis and uncovering the secrets of The First Wizard, lost to time and ruin.

## Image Board

https://www.pinterest.com/watersalexander980/city-of-steel/
