# The Pit

The Pit of Algoraeix, more commonly referred to as The Pit, is a titanic chasam in the earth located directly west of The City of Steel, and just south of the Gothraka wall. The chasam stretches roughly 200 miles in diameter and takes up half of the continents width where it is located. The depth of the pit is unknown. Most assume that is endless. 

The Pit was created nearly 1,000 years ago at the end of the Planar War, as the result of a ritual created to seal away the greater demon Algoraeix who had escaped from the Abyss into the Material Plane to wreack havoc on the world by using his powers to take control of the minds of mortals and set them at each other's throats. The demon grew in power until no mortal being could hope to defeat him, only seal him away. In order to stop Algoraeix's destructive path. the great wizards of Mitopolis created a powerful arcane ritual that would seal him into the leylines of Cara's surface. The ritual was so powerful, that the combined arcane wellsprings of all the great mages of Mitopolis was not enough to fuel it's casting. In order to seal the demon away, the Gods themselves worked in tandem with the mages to fuel the ritual with their divine power in order to bind Algoraeix. The ritual was intended to seal Algoraeix into the leylines of the planet, causing his essence to disperse across the leylines, sealing him within Cara itself. However, for some unknown reason, the ritual backfired. It did indeed seal Algoraeix within the planet, but a tremendous cost. The ritual created a titanic explosion which destroyed half of the great city of Mitopolis. The explosion wiped half of the city off the face of the planet, leaving only an titanic pit in its wake.

In the modern day, The Pit has become a place of legend and of tremendous dread. Anyone with a good head on their shoulders knows to avoid the place at all costs. Any individual who does decide to journey to the pit does so knowing that they may never come back. Of course falling into the great chasam means certain death. No one has ever reached the bottem, and most assume the thing has none. Anyone or anything that has the misfortune of falling in is lost forever. In addition, the interior walls of the pit and the surrounding caverns are coated with a toxic substance known as Blight Steel, which has powerful magical properties but is determintal to the leylines of most living creatures. The caverns that interweave around the pit has been known to contain tremendous treasures and discoveries of the great city of Mitopolis. But these caverns are not for the feint of heart, as the strange aura emitting from the pit attracts many evil creatures. Some say the creatures can hear the call of Algoraeix, faintly echoing from the endless blackness below.

