# Chapter 1 - Mythology of Cara


Cara is one planet out of seven heavenly bodies that make up The Material Plane. The Material Plane was once an empty space, devoid of all energy, light, and life known as The Void. The Void was created in ages lost to time and memory by the Supreme Deities to serve as an endless barrier to contain and imprison the demons of the Lower Planes. The Supreme Deities are immortal, all-powerful, and unchanging beings of pure divine energy that can shape reality at will and live in eternal harmony. Since the beginning of time the Supreme Deities have been opposed by the demons who hunt them to no end, driven by the relentless desire to break the eternal stillness and order of their unchanging existence. The demons of the Lower Plane serve as the dark mirror to the Supreme Deities, providing balance to the cosmos.

The history of Cara begins with the Supreme Deity Titania. It is said that in the age before The Material Plane, Titania grew tired of the eternal perfection of the Upper Planes and sought to use her divine power to create new life. She wanted to create beings of energy that would have a will and a desire to go forth and choose their own path, not follow one set for them by the laws of the cosmos. Titania’s experiments to create such beings angered the other Supreme Deities greatly as her desire to change disrupted the eternal perfection of their existence. For her transgressions, Titania was banished from the Upper Planes into The Void, where she would be imprisoned for all eternity. Titania used her divine powers to fill her prison with the life she sought so desperately to create. It was in The Void that Titania gave birth to her daughter, Cara, and in doing so created the Material Plane.

After giving birth to Cara, Titania created six other deities to care for, educate, and help raise the young godling. She created the twin stars, Primus and Scholar, and the four surrounding planets of Mon, Teler, Jenta, and Kane. These six served as guardians of the young Cara, her teachers, protectors, and friends. Each of these six were given incredible powers known as Immortal Gifts, which they used to raise Cara and give her everything she needed to create life of her own. Primus gave Cara the light and fire, sowing the seeds for new beginnings. Mon gave Cara the land and earth, setting the foundation for her creations. Teler gave Cara the skies and the freedom of ever shifting winds. Jenta gave Cara her seas and the mysteries that lie within them. Scholar gave Cara the night, and taught her of the importance of ending. Kane gave Cara nothing. He was jealous of her and her place in the material plane. Kane selfishly kept his gift for himself. The most important gift of them all. The gift of Harmony. Without Kane’s gift, Cara was left to be unstable and volatile. But she had no choice but to continue on.

With the gifts bestowed on her by the other gods, Cara created her own children. The first mortal race. The first mortals were beings of Cara’s own will, bestowed with their own divine power to create and shape the face of the world in their own image. Cara and her guardians tended to the mortals and helped them grow, assisting them with their creations. The first mortals sought to create life just as their divine parentage had, and with guidance of Cara and the elder gods, they shaped more races out of the many features on the planet's surface. From the stone, the first mortals created Dwarves. From the trees, Elves. From the seas, Tritons. And from the sky, Dragons. These four primal races then in turn created their own children, giving birth to humans, halflings, giants, dragonborn, goblins, and the many beasts and monsters of Cara. The mortal races relished in their powers, creating vast and expansive civilizations that lasted centuries with the guidance of the elder gods to help them. This time was known as the first age.

As time passed however, some members of the mortal races began to become unhappy with their powers. They became frustrated with their place in the material plane, and sought to grow beyond their creator and become gods themselves. A collection of seventeen mortals somehow managed to use their divine powers to break away from their mortal restraints and ascend to godhood. This new pantheon attempted to overthrow the elder gods who were hurt by this sudden attack from their children. In response, the elder gods did not fight, but retreated deep within their heavenly bodies, closing themselves off and abandoning what was once their treasured children. The new gods first decree was to revoke the divine powers that the elder gods have given to the mortal races, so that no one else might ascend to the power they selfishly hoarded for themselves. The mortal races were furious with the new pantheon for stripping them of their divine powers and banishing the elder gods. They attempted to rebel against the new gods, but were easily defeated because of the divine power the gods possessed. Although they stood no chance, the mortal races fought fiercely in honor of the elder gods. The conflict lasted for centuries, shaping the face of Cara as she wept for her peoples. This was known as the divine war. 

Eventually, the mortal races bent the knee to the new gods and accepted them as the new rulers of the material plane. The first mortals were the only ones who refused to submit to the rule of the new gods. They abandoned the world and retreated to a far off continent, where Cara gave them her blessing and protection so that they might live free from the influence of the new gods. Over time, the first mortals were forgotten and the new gods did everything in their power to erase their memory. The descendants of the first mortals are now known as the Orcs who call the continent of Votar their home. Though they have tried many times, the gods cannot seem to breach the borders of Votar. Orcs are looked at with disdain by most of the other races because of this, but some remember that they were Cara’s first children and her last true worshippers. The end of the Divine War marks the beginning of the second age.

After the mortal races submitted to their rule, the new gods created seats of their power, known as a Polaris, physical locations that the gods draw their power from. The new gods divided up the surface of Cara into sixteen different domains which each god ruled over with the exception of their king, Mastoron, who rules over all the domains of the earth and sea from his palace in the skies of Cara. Content with their victory, the new gods retreated to their various domains content with their new found worship. The mortals who remained after the divine war began to rebuild the world under the rule of the new gods who assisted them in creating new lands and civilizations in exchange for the peoples worship and observance. The new gods even bestowed small amounts of divine power upon their most devout followers, creating the first users of divine magic. 

Over the course of many thousands of years, the mortals and gods began to fall into a harmonious existence and civilization began anew. Mortals contended themselves to a existence without the power they once had, unless granted to them by a god who saw them as worthy, and time marched on. After many thousands of years however, a human boy was born who became obsessed with obtaining the power that was taken from the mortal races so long ago. In his journey to reclaim divine power, free from the influence of any god, this boy discovered a process for harnessing and manipulating the power of leylines, creating the practice of arcane magic. When the gods discovered the boy's abilities, they sought to destroy him and his knowledge, but his mastery over the leylines of Cara allowed him to fight off the gods and spread his knowledge before they could silence him, and the practice of the arcane began to spread throughout the world. He was known as Mito, the First Wizard. The birth of Mito marks the beginning of the Third Age.

With the discovery and development of the arcane, the mortal races began to understand that they could draw magic from the very fabric of reality itself. Leylines are the thread that make up the cosmos, and are tied to physical matter. Because of this, certain places within the material plane contain more potent arcane potential. The invention of the arcane gave the mortal races an incredible new tool and paved the way for many advancements and civilizations, but also was the source of tremendous conflict. Places where the leylines intersected were hoarded with jealousy as they were the strongest sources of arcane magic. Many wars were fought, and many mortals lived and died for control of these leylines.

A little over three millennia after the birth of Mito brings us to the present day of 3,487 TA. Cara is an ancient place with many legends and mysteries yet to be discovered. The accounts of history in Cara are widely varied, colorful, confusing, and sometimes contradictory, all shrouded in the mists of time. There are many countries, kingdoms, cultures, and peoples scattered upon the planet's face who all have their own stories to tell for how the world became what it is today. The secrets of Cara and the worlds beyond her may never be fully understood, but there is much to discover if you are brave enough to look.