# Alasia

Alasia is a country located in the center of the continent that takes up the majority of the landmass of Chardon. The country is located firmly in the center of the summer belt of Cara, making it a very hospitable country with a desirable climate and warm temperatures. Because of this, the country was named after the elven word for summer. Alasia was formed under the peace treaty made between the fourteen warring factions known as The Pact of Alasia or The Binding of Summer.

Before the peace treaty, the swath of land that is now the country was split between fourteen factions who were locked in constant conflict, all of them trying to assert dominance over the others and claim more of the land for themselves to consolidate the power of the powerful leylines found within the land. The factions descended from colonizers from many other continents, primarily the mother continent Xorn, who began to take interest in the land once Mito and his school of wizards began teaching the ways of the arcane.

The conflict between the factions was characterized by its heavy use of combat magic and arcane war machines. The intense concentration of magical energy caused tears in the leylines, which created planar rifts, or portals to other planes of existence in the multiverse that released strange and powerful creatures into the fray. One of these creatures was the greater demon Algoraeix.

Algoraeix is classified as a greater demon, which is the third highest power categorization of beings from the lower planes following demon lords and elder demons (refer to chapter 5). Algoraeix sought greater power that he could obtain within the lower planes, which he was able to gain due to his demonic powers. Algoraeix is a demon of dreams, shadows, and manipulation. He draws power from the control he exerts over other beings. Because of the unstable nature of the time, Algoraeix was able to gather a small following that formed a cult in his name. The first of these cultists were known as “the fire eyed” and could be distinguished by the blue flames that could be seen in their eyes that resulted from Algoraeix’s magic. Once Algoraeix amassed enough followers, he began to take control of beings with force, no longer needing them to surrender themselves willingly. Algoraeix grew and grew in power, sowing chaos and destruction across Alasia until he nearly destroyed all of Chardon. Algoraeix was eventually sealed by a ritual engineered by the high mages of Mitopolis and empowered by the divine will of all seventeen deities, banishing the demon into the confines of a titanic pit in the earth. The creation of the pit destroyed half of Mitopolis and with it all of its greatest mages which began the city's downfall into what is now known as the City of Steel.

After the sealing of Algoraeix, the gods deemed that the conflict in Alasia could continue no longer, so they forced the leaders of all fourteen factions to come together and form a peace treaty to establish one collective nation. The First Fourteen (as they are often referred to) established a system of guilds that would represent each of the factions that once fought with each other. These guilds would gather the greatest mages, warriors, artificers, bards, and heroes of the nation to protect Alasia from harm under one banner, while still keeping the spirit of the fourteen alive. The guilds head quarters are all located in the coastal city of Helbrink. No guild is permitted to establish any base of operations within Faron in order to balance the power between the council and the guilds. The guilds are however allowed one representative to reside in the palace of Faron to communicate that guilds influence in the government of Alasia. In addition to the guilds, the Fourteen established a council of seven champions to rule over the country, with one high champion to serve as the leader of the council. These champions would be elected through a series of trials that elected representatives of the fourteen guilds would have to face in order to challenge the current champions, who they would then have to defeat in battle. This system of election represents the importance that the champions of Alasia be able to demonstrate not only their leadership and governing skills, but also their practical capabilities and raw power. All of these attributes are vitally important in keeping the peace in a land fraught with as many strange and powerful dangers as Alasia. In addition to the council, the treaty also established the capital of Alasia, the great city of Faron. Faron is located at the base of the Sabaen Peak which is the largest mountain in the country. This mountain is also known as The Hand of the Seven.

Today, Alasia is known throughout the world for its powerful magic, mysterious wilderness, and legendary heroes. Many who desire to hone their skills, train with powerful mentors, or simply find a community of like minded and capable individuals often journey to Alasia to join one of the fourteen guilds located in Helbrink. Alasia is a popular place for travelers of all sorts throughout Cara, and many wanderers find their way through the country at one point or another in their travels. Because of the diverse history of the country, the planar rifts that are far too common, the fourteen guilds, and the attraction of the warm temperatures, you can find just about any sort of magic, person, or creature somewhere in the thriving cities or deep and magical wilderness.

## Cities of Alasia

- [Faron](Continents/Chardon/Alasia/Faron.md)
- [Helbrink](Continents/Chardon/Alasia/Helbrink.md)
- [Fenhaven](Continents/Chardon/Alasia/Fenhaven.md)
- [Ganamede](Continents/Chardon/Alasia/Ganamede.md) 

## Image Board

https://www.pinterest.com/watersalexander980/alasia/

