# Fel'Durr

Fel’Durr is a country to the south of Alasia, sharing a border with the country of Karn and the continent of Kalastar. It is located just below the summer belt, with the northern parts of the country being in a constant state of late summer or early autumn, and the southern areas being much colder with temperatures similar to early winter or late fall. Fel’Durr is an elven nation ruled over by a single monarch and a collection of royal families with bloodlines stretching back for thousands of years. The country was established sometime during The Second Age when many tribes of elves who had been driven out of their homeland crossed the sea from Xorn to seek out a new home. They named this land Fel’Durr, or “first dawn” in the common tongue.

The kingdom of Fel’Durr is an ancient place with many secrets to uncover. It is a proud nation that prides itself on its history and traditions. In elven culture, life revolves around your bloodline. Elves often refer to themselves by their family name first, as your house can indicate a great deal about your profession, position, wealth, and status. Elven culture is much more structured than most other cultures in Cara, and it can be difficult to ascend above your station in the kingdom. Many elves aspire to do great deeds in the name of their house to elevate their family’s reputation and standing within the complicated tapestry of power in Fel’Durr.

Fel’Durr is home to many world renown and ancient places, such as the five colleges of Prismon and the dawn city of Lo’thial. These wonders are seldom seen by outsiders however, as Fel’Durr is very restrictive on who they allow into their borders in order to preserve their culture and keep bloodlines pure. The only country that Fel’Durr is known to have friendly relations with is Alasia. Fel’Durr and Alasia have been said to a relationship that resembles a father and child. In the past thousand years since the forming of Alasia, Fel’Durr and it’s monarch has served as a protector and mentor of the fledgling country, often providing assistance and aid to the council of seven in times of need. Alasia and Fel’Durr are allies and often trade and intermingle with one another. The king or queen of Fel’Durr is even known to visit the capital of Alasia once a year during the Summer Festival, a week-long celebration that marks the anniversary of the signing of the Binding of Summer. Likewise, the prime champion of Alasia and their company is permitted entry within the hallowed gates of the Dawn City during Fel’Durr’s founding celebration, known as The First Dawn. These visits are to showcase the two countries' continued alliance but are also incredibly important political meetings where the future of both nations can be discussed, and those who seek a rise in their station can attempt to use the meeting as leverage to climb the political ladder.

Although not as volatile as it’s northern neighbor, Fel’Durr is still located and Cara and has powerful magical properties. The elves have spent thousands of year taming the wild nature of these leylines to serve their purposes and today the magic of land is still powerful, but much more subdued than Alasia. The elves are known for their incredible ability to commune with the land and the leylines within, using its power to fuel their civilization. As a result, elves are often much more inherently attuned to the arcane, and often use it in daily life. In other countries, magic is a powerful ability known only to those who study it diligently or who were born with rare abilities. In the kingdom of Fel’Durr however, magic is a daily occurrence used by the majority of the population for convenience and day to day tasks.

Because of the elves' proficiency in magic, many individuals journey from all corners of the globe to seek study within the great colleges of the city of enlightenment, Prismon. Prismon is made up of an outer city and an inner city. The inner city is walled off from the outside world and is made up entirely of five colleges that serve as one of the greatest institutions of knowledge in the world. The colleges are ruthlessly selective in their application process and only a select few from all over the world are permitted to study there. The college and knowledge within is given completely at no cost to it’s students with one exception, each and every graduate must use their talents and the knowledge they gathered at the college to serve the nation in some way for four years. Once their time of service has passed, they are permitted to do as they please and go wherever they desire. If a graduate forgoes this responsibility, their is serious consequence. The renegade in question will be hunted down by an elite force of mages serving Fel’Durr, and they will have their memory wiped of all knowledge they acquired while attending the college.

On the southern border of Fel’Durr just beyond its capital of Lo’thial, is the great wall of Fel’Durr that marks the border between the continents of Chardon and Kalastar. This wall was created in the early days of the kingdom as a precaution against the tyrannical dwarven nation of Karn. Karn is ruled over by an immortal warlord named Draxas Ire who achieved eternal life through unknown means in the dawn of the Second Age. Draxas Ire and his clan are hellbent are conquering all of Cara in the name of the dwarves and ruling over all the world with an iron fist. They believe their clan to be the superior race, and look down upon all other peoples with disdain. Karn is a country built on thousands upon thousands of bloodshed and tyranny, enslaving and murdering entire cultures and civilizations in pursuit of their twisted aims. Because of this, Fel’Durr has a brutally efficient and extremely powerful militia that protects the wall and the country as a whole from their oppressive neighbors. The greatest wizards and warriors of the kingdom are given command of battalions of thousands of soldiers that diligently serve Fel’Durr and protect it from all that might attempt to disrupt the peace of the ancient kingdom.

## Cities of Fel'Durr

- [[Lo'thial]]
- [[Prismon]]
- [[Kor]]

## Image Board

https://www.pinterest.com/watersalexander980/feldurr/